# Great Malaysia AI Hackathon 2025
## Project-title: AWS DETECTIVE
Pitch Deck: https://www.canva.com/design/DAGzIBzTG5c/Ubj2J3VIgHjtOCf_fTG37g/edit?utm_content=DAGzIBzTG5c&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link2&utm_source=sharebutton


## Team member:
1. Kelvin Chin Vui Hung
2. Sim Soo Ruan
3. Ryan Ling Ji Hau
4. Lim Jing Yi
5. Saw Khoo Mei Huey

## Problem statement ~ AI vs AI: Detecting Machine-Generated Content
### With the rise of generative AI tools like ChatGPT, Deepfakes, and AI-generated images or text, the line between human and machine-created content is becoming increasingly blurred. 
- To develop an AI-powered system that can accurately detect whether the content was generated by AI tools or not. 
- To analyzing linguistic patterns and writing style in text or details in images. 
- To help in content moderation, academic integrity, and media authentication.

## Problem solved ##
- Raise awareness of AI-generated content in the current digital era where AI is getting more and more advanced.
- Use Nova Pro to provide details explanation on detecting text instead of scores only. This provide detailed analysis and evidence to users.
- Accurate image detection, able to identify very realisitc AI generated images. 
- Citation and fact checker for cross checking citation and actual fact. This ensure a deep dive into the documents, not just stop at the analysis phase. User can validate the accuracy, validity of the information, able to detect hallucinations from AI tools.

## Business Value ##
- Cost effective - User no need to subscribe to multiple AI detection tools for different detection. Our platform provide a one stop solution. With one subscription, user can enjoy different detection tools.
- Time effective - Instead of opening multiple tabs to use different AI tools, user can do every detection tasks in our system. Suitable for lecturers when grading assignment. With references cross checking and fact checker, they can save time in validating the content as well.
- Cost optimization through Serverless Amazon Lambda - Entire system is built using Amazon Lambda, which is a serverless service. Company that adopts this system will not have to worry about server rental and server maintainance as Lambda is pay per request. They can spend the cost on other affairs.

## Product Description: AI-Content-Detector-on-AWS. 
An AI-powered system built with AWS services that detects whether text, documents and images are generated by humans or AI. Supports multi-modal content analysis, provides confidence scores, and explains reasoning using Amazon Bedrock and other AWS services.

## Technology Stack Used
### Frontend & Styling: 
- Vue.js 3 (vue)
- Vite (vite.config.ts)
- Tailwind CSS (tailwind.config.js)
  
### Backend: 
- Python
  
### Cloud Services - AWS (Amazon Web Services): 
- Amazon API Gateway:
  - Provides a secure public API for the UI to send image requests.
- Amazon Lambda:
  - Lightweight backend logic that connects the UI with AI services.
- Amazon Comprehend:
  - Analyzes text metadata (captions/descriptions) for sentiment and insights.
- Amazon Bedrock (Nova Pro):
  - Generates advanced AI text responses/explanations.
- Amazon SageMaker:
  - Hosts and serves the HuggingFace deepfake-detector model (prithivMLmods/deepfake-detector-model-v1) for image classification.
- Amazon S3:
  - Stores input media like documents and images and also processed results.
- Amazon DynamoDB:
  - Saves detection results, metadata, and user activity logs.
- Amazon CloudWatch:
  - Monitors logs, errors, and performance for the entire system.
  
## Setup Instructions
1. Clone Github repos to code editor such as visual studio code
2. Open terminal, the terminal will show path like (C:\Users\user\source\repos >)
3. Run command below

> cd AWS_Hackathon
> 
> cd aws-project
> 
> npm run dev

4. Ctrl + click the local link or copy+paste the link to web browser
